E-commerce Giants of China
Taobao: Taobao is China's largest online shopping platform, offering a wide range of products from clothing to electronics. Launched by Alibaba in 2003, Taobao has made shopping easy with its seller rating system and fast shipping options, creating a diverse and convenient online shopping experience that has largely changed the way people live and consume. Taobao has 887 million monthly active users now.
JD.com: ou JingDong which offers a wide range of products from electronics to clothing. Jingdong began setting up its own logistics in 2007 under the leadership of Liu Qiangdong. Today, the company is creating an integrated supply chain with digital and real convergence, and is building an extremely stable and reliable supply chain capability through solid investment. The company has distinguished itself by its commitment to product quality and rapid delivery, consolidating its position as a leader in the Chinese e-commerce market.
Douyin: Tiktok in China. It plays an important role in e-commerce by supporting various forms of attraction such as live streaming with goods, short video displays, and spike discounts to enhance users' engagement and desire to buy. It combines traditional social media and e-commerce, transforming the viewing experience into an immersive shopping opportunity. As such, it drives the emergence of new forms of online marketing and sales in China.
Pinduoduo: often abbreviated as "PDD", was founded in 2015 and is known for its innovative social shopping model. By initiating a group with friends, family, neighbors, etc., users can buy high-quality goods at a lower price, in a group. The social concept formed through communication and sharing has shaped PDD's unique new social e-commerce thinking. It launched a powerful "10 billion subsidies" campaign has attracted a lot of attention. This unique approach has helped it become one of China's leading e-commerce companies, especially by attracting consumers looking for bargains.
Tmall: is operated by Alibaba Group and focuses more on the B2C sales model. It is known for its focus on premium brands and retailers. By providing a premium shopping experience, Tmall connects Chinese consumers with a wide range of quality products from fashion to electronics. Its slogan of 100% authenticity is the secret sauce that catches most people's eyes. Consumers are no longer just looking for bargains, but are increasingly focusing on the quality and experience of shopping, which is becoming one of Tmall's strengths.
Xiaohongshu(Redbook) is a young lifestyle sharing platform founded in 2013. As of January 2019, it has more than 200 million users. In Xiaohongshu, users record life's moments through short videos, graphics and other forms. The community generates billions of note exposures every day, covering various lifestyle areas such as fashion, skincare, makeup, food, travel, film and television, reading, fitness... Xiaohongshu has accumulated a library of user word-of-mouth by attracting users to share their shopping experiences. Meanwhile, by inviting celebrities and online celebrities to join the store and establishing personalized push, it has greatly increased the conversion rate. In the Xiaohongshu mall, you can directly buy what you see in the notes, without opening Taobao to search again. In the Xiaohongshu community, you can quickly know the current trends, net red restaurants, net red card points, net red food and so on some of the current hot. No need to search, it will appear directly in your discovery page.
